Document Layout Instability API (#23007)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/layoutshift/value/index.md

---
title: LayoutShift.value
slug: Web/API/LayoutShift/value
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.LayoutShift.value
tags:
  - experimental
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{APIRef("Performance API")}}

> The **`value`** readonly property of the {{domxref("LayoutShift")}} interface returns the layout shift score calculated by the impact fraction (fraction of the viewport that was shifted) times the distance fraction (distance moved as a fraction of viewport).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`value`** read-only property of the {{domxref("LayoutShift")}} interface returns the layout shift score calculated as the impact fraction (fraction of the viewport that was shifted) multiplied by the distance fraction (distance moved as a fraction of viewport).
```

## Value

A number between `0.0` and `1.0` indicating the layout shift score.

> It is calculated by the impact fraction (fraction of the viewport that was shifted) times the distance fraction (distance moved as a fraction of viewport).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is calculated as the impact fraction (fraction of the viewport that was shifted) multiplied by the distance fraction (distance moved as a fraction of viewport).
```

```plain
layout shift score = impact fraction * distance fraction
```

> For more details, see [Layout shift score](https://web.dev/cls/#layout-shift-score) on web.dev.

Reviewer: It's a bit sad to defer to web.dev for this but I see where you are coming from 🤷‍♂️

Author: Yeah I think there is a lot to unpack for the calculation of `value`. I wasn't sure how and if to go into this. The web.dev page already did this work, so I thought we might as well reference it. Referencing the spec leads to a much more cryptic explanation https://wicg.github.io/layout-instability/#sec-layout-shift-value :(
